- [Instructor] Let us now see how do you resolve views
through a ResourceBundle file.
The process is pretty much similar
to the way we have done the XmlViewResolver stuff.
Let's go through the steps one-by-one.
The first thing is you will have to configure
the ResourceBundleViewResolver
in your application configuration.
So let's head back to IDE and let's go down there.
On line 64, I'm going to instantiate a bean.
And what is that for?
That is for the
ResourceBundleViewResolver.
Let us also instantiate it.
And to this we are going to set the base name.
So base name, let's say is views. That's all.
And let's just return this viewResolver.
So what does this configuration mean?
We are saying that all our views
are now defined in a properties file.
The name of the properties file, the base name is views.
It's going to take up a properties file
because it's ResourceBundleViewResolver.
You do not have to tell it explicitly about the extension.
So that's going to be views.properties, and that's all.
Now we have to create this file.
So the way we created the XML file
under the resources folder.
Let's go, right click the resources folder again
to create the views.properties file.
Again please remember when we a trying
to do the ResourceBundleViewResolver or the XMLViewResolver,
these particular files should reside datacally
under the resources folder,
which means they should be classed part resources,
otherwise they wouldn't be recognized
by the Spring MVC framework.
Okay, so what goes under views.properties?
So this is also now going to define all the views,
but they are going to be defined
through a properties files index,
which means it is like key and value.
So let's find out how to do that.
So let's say if you want to map the definition
for the index view.
So we write it like this,
index, and then we put a dot of course,
and we have to provide the JstlView class name
because that the view class that we're using
to render the JSP content.
So I'm just going to quickly pick it up from the views.xml
that we have already written in before.
Let's copy line number nine,
fully qualifies class name of JstlView.
Let's come back here and paste it there.
The next one will be the view name, dot, the URL property.
So now this will be the part of the JSP
which is, of course we know what it is,
WEB-INF/jsp/index.jsp.
For this particular demo,
I'm just going to define one view in this.
You can, of course, go ahead
and define all the other file views
that you probably wish to.
For this demo I'm just restricting it
to a single index.jsp view resolution.
So we have configured the ResourceBundleViewResolver.
We have added all mappings
for viewing a properties file on classpath.
Last step is to build and run the application.
But before that, let's go to application config
and make sure that we comment out XmlViewResolver.
We don't want this now because we want our resolution
to be done by the ResourceBundleViewResolver.
So let's do a build of this.
So we are not going to employ InternalResourceViewResolver,
neither are we going to employ XmlViewResolver.
We are trying to resolve our views
using ResourceBundleViewResolver.
Let's check out the application.
Let's go to home.
Cool, so we have our index view mapped correctly
and it is now picking it up
from the ResourceBundleViewResolver mechanism.
Let's click on search.
And you see, you have a problem
because this view is now mapped right now
on your properties file.
Let's go back to the IDE and observe what the error is.
So it says that it could now resolve view
with the name search
in the servlet with name dispatcherServlet.
So that's perfect.
That's a completely understandable error.
In your views.properties you do not have
that view defined anymore
which is why it is not able to resolve it,
and hence the error.
So if you define all the remaining views
in this properties file,
you will be able to resolve everything
via ResourceBundleViewResolver.